# K8s Networking Architectural Overview
1. Kubernetes Network Model Architecture
The Kubernetes network model is a set of standards that define how networking between Pods behaves.
There are a variety of different implementations of this model — including the Calico network plugin, which we have been using throughout this course.
The Kubernetes network model defines how Pods communicate with each other, regardless of which Node they are running on. 
Each Pod has its own unique IP address within the cluster, Any Pod can reach any other Pod
using that Pod’s IP address. This creates a virtual network that allows Pods to easily communicate with each other, regardless of which node they are on.

2. CNI Plugins Overview
CNI plugins are a type of Kubernetes network plugin. These plugins provide network connectivity between Pods according to the standard set by the Kubernetes network model.
There are many CNI network plugins available.
2. 1.Selecting a Network Plugin
Which network plugin is best for you will depend on your specific situation.
Check the Kubernetes documentation for a list of available plugins. You may need to research some of these plugins for yourself, depending on your production use case.
The plugin used in this course is Calico.

2. 2.Installing Network Plugins
Each plugin has its own unique installation process. Early in this course, we installed the Calico network plugin. 
PS: Kubernetes nodes will remain NotReady until a network plugin is installed. You will be unable to run Pods while this is the case.

3. Understanding K8s DNS
The K8s virtual network uses a DNS (Domain Name System) to allow Pods to locate other Pods and Services using domain names instead of IP addresses.
This DNS runs as a Service within the cluster. You can usually find it in the kube-system namespace.
Kubeadm clusters use CoreDNS.

3. 1.Pod Domain Names
All Pods in our kubeadm cluster are automatically
given a domain name of the following form:
    pod-ip-address.namespace-name.pod.cluster.local
A Pod in the default namespace with the IP address 192.168.10.100 would have a domain name like this:
    192-168-10-100.default.pod.cluster.local
this is more useful when we use service not when pods communicate with each other in this case we just use the ip adress that is all what we need.

4. Using NetworkPolicies
A K8s NetworkPolicy is an object that allows you to control the flow of network communication to and from Pods.
This allows you to build a more secure cluster network by keeping Pods isolated from traffic they do not need.

4. 1.Pod Selector
podSelector: Determines to which Pods in the namespace the NetworkPolicy applies.
The podSelector can select Pods using Pod labels.
PS: By default, Pods are considered nonisolated and completely open to all communication.

If any NetworkPolicy selects a Pod, the Pod is considered isolated and will only be open to traffic allowed by NetworkPolicies.
...
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
 name: my-network-policy
spec:
 podSelector:
    matchLabels:
        role: db
...

4. 2.Ingress and Egress
A NetworkPolicy can apply to Ingress, Egress, or both.
INGRESS :Incoming network traffic coming into the Pod from another source.
EGRESS :Outgoing network traffic leaving the Pod for another destination.

4. 3.from and to Selectors
from selector: Selects ingress (incoming) traffic that will be allowed.
to selector: Selects egress (outgoing) traffic that will be allowed.
...
spec:
 ingress:
 - from:
 ...
 egress:
 - to:
 ... 
...
podSelector: select pods to allow trafic from/to. like this:
...
spec:
 ingress:
 - from:
 - podSelector:
 matchLabels:
 app: db
...
namespaceSelector: Select namespaces to allow traffic from/to. like this:
...
spec:
 ingress:
 - from:
 - namespaceSelector:
 matchLabels:
 app: db
...
ipBlock: Select an IP range to allow traffic from/to. like this:
...
spec:
 ingress:
 - from:
 - ipBlock:
 cidr: 172.17.0.0/16
...

4. 4.Ports
Specifies one or more ports that will allow traffic.
Traffic is only allowed if it matches both an allowed port and one of the from/to rules.
...
spec:
 ingress:
 - from:
 ports:
 - protocol: TCP
 port: 80
...