# K8s Services Overview
ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/
Kubernetes Services provide a way to expose an application running as a set of Pods.
They provide an abstract way for clients to access applications without needing to be aware of the application’s Pods.

# Service Routing
Clients make requests to a Service, which routes traffic to its Pods in a load-balanced fashion. 

# Endpoints
Endpoints are the backend entities to which Services route traffic. For a Service that routes traffic to multiple Pods, each Pod will have an endpoint associated with the Service.
Tip: One way to determine which Pod(s) a Service is routing traffic to is to look at that service’s Endpoints

# Service Types

Each Service has a type. The Service type determines how and where the Service will expose your application. There are four service types:
ClusterIP
NodePort
LoadBalancer
ExternalName

ClusterIP Services expose applications inside the cluster network. Use them when your clients will be other Pods within the cluster. 
NodePort Services expose applications outside the cluster network. Use NodePort when applications or users will be accessing your application from outside the cluster. 
LoadBalancer services expose applications outside the cluster network, but they use an external cloud load balancer to do so. This service type only works with cloud platforms that include load balancing functionality.

ExternalName: Services of type ExternalName map a Service to a DNS name, not to a typical selector such as my-service or cassandra. You specify these Services with the spec.externalName parameter.
This Service definition, for example, maps the my-service Service in the prod namespace to my.database.example.com:
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
  namespace: prod
spec:
  type: ExternalName
  externalName: my.database.example.com

TIP: we can view the enpoints of an svc by running:
> kubectl get endpoints <SERVICE_NAME> 

# Exposing Kubernetes Pods Using Services
Introduction
Kubernetes Services are a great way to combine Kubernetes networking with the dynamic and often automated nature of Kubernetes applications. In this lab, you will use Services to expose existing Kubernetes Pods. This will allow you to practice your skills with Kubernetes Services.

Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:

ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
Expose the Pods from the User-db Deployment as an Internal Service
Examine the properties of the user-db deployment by using kubectl get deployment user-db -o yaml.

In the deployment properties, find the spec and look for the Pod template, paying particular attention to the labels, especially the label app: user-db.

Take note of which port(s) are exposed.

Start creating a Service that will expose its Pods to other components within the cluster by using vi user-db-svc.yml.

Define the Service by using:

apiVersion: v1 
kind: Service 
metadata: 
  name: user-db-svc 
spec: 
  type: ClusterIP 
  selector: 
    app: user-db 
  ports: 
  - protocol: TCP 
    port: 80 
    targetPort: 80
Save and exit the file by hitting the ESC key and using :wq.

Finish creating the Service by using kubectl create -f user-db-svc.yml.

Test the Service to make sure it works by using kubectl exec busybox -- curl user-db-svc. It may not work right away, so you may need to wait a few minutes and try again, but you should be able to see the Nginx welcome page.

Expose the Pods from the Web-frontend Deployment as an External Service
Now, examine the properties of the frontend deployment by using kubectl get deployment web-frontend -o yaml.

Check the labels applied to the Pod template. You should see the label app=web-frontend.

Take note of which port(s) are exposed.

Start creating a Service that will expose its Pods on port 30080 of each cluster node by using vi web-frontend-svc.yml.

Define the Service by using:

apiVersion: v1 
kind: Service 
metadata: 
  name: web-frontend-svc 
spec: 
  type: NodePort 
  selector: 
    app: web-frontend 
  ports: 
  - protocol: TCP 
    port: 80 
    targetPort: 80 
    nodePort: 30080
Save and exit the file by hitting the ESC key and using :wq.
Finish creating the Service by using kubectl create -f web-frontend-svc.yml.

Test the Service from outside the cluster (such as in a browser) by navigating to http://<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>:30080.

# Service DNS Names

The Kubernetes DNS (Domain Name System) assigns DNS names to Services, allowing applications within the cluster to easily locate them. A service’s fully qualified domain name has the following format:
        *service-name.namespacename.svc.cluster-domain.example*
The default cluster domain is cluster.local.

# Service DNS and Namespaces

A Service’s fully qualified domain name can be used to reach the service from within any Namespace in the cluster.
        *my-service.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local*

A Service’s fully qualified domain name can be used to reach the service from within any Namespace in the cluster: *my-service.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local*
However, Pods within the same Namespace can also simply use the service name: *my-service*

TIPS:  
use nslookup to watch for domain name records in the dns server (searching by ip or dns) to get informations like IP and DNS name

# Using Kubernetes Services with DNS practice
Kubernetes Services can be located with the Kubernetes DNS just like Pods can. In this lab, you will work with the Kubernetes DNS to discover Services from within a Pod. This will test your knowledge of how to interact with Services using DNS.

# Perform an Nslookup for a Service in the Same Namespace
Start using the busybox Pod in the web namespace to perform an nslookup on the web-frontend Service by entering:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup web-frontend
Redirect the output to save the results in a text file by using:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup web-frontend >> ~/dns_same_namespace_results.txt
Look up the same Service using the fully qualified domain name by entering:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup web-frontend.web.svc.cluster.local
Redirect the output to save the results of the second nslookup in a text file by using:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup web-frontend.web.svc.cluster.local >> ~/dns_same_namespace_results.txt
Check that everything looks okay in the text file by using:

cat ~/dns_same_namespace_results.txt
Use clear to clear the text file output.

# Perform an Nslookup For a Service in a Different Namespace
Use the busybox Pod in the web namespace to perform an nslookup on the user-db Service in the data namespace, while only utilizing the short Service name, by entering:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup user-db
This first request is supposed to result in an error message, so don't be alarmed if you see that we can't resolve user-db.

Save the results of this nslookup in a text file by using:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup user-db >> ~/dns_different_namespace_results.txt
Perform the same lookup using the fully qualified domain name by entering:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup user-db.data.svc.cluster.local
Save the results in a text file by using:

kubectl exec -n web busybox -- nslookup user-db.data.svc.cluster.local >> ~/dns_different_namespace_results.txt
Check the output in the text file by using:

cat ~/dns_different_namespace_results.txt

# Managing Access from Outside with K8s Ingress
An Ingress is a Kubernetes object that manages external access to Services in the cluster.
An Ingress is capable of providing more functionality than a simple NodePort Service, such as SSL termination, advanced load balancing, or namebased virtual hosting.

# Ingress Controllers
Ingress objects actually do nothing by themselves. In order for Ingresses to do anything, you must install one or more Ingress controllers.
There are a variety of Ingress Controllers available —all of which implement different methods for providing external access to your Services.

# Routing to a Service 
Ingresses define a set of routing rules. A routing rule’s properties determine to which requests it applies.
Each rule has a set of paths, each with a backend. Requests matching a path will be routed to its associated backend.
In this example, a request to http://<some-endpoint>/somepath would be routed to port 80 on the my-service Service.
...
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
 name: my-ingress
spec:
 rules:
 - http:
 paths:
 - path: /somepath
 pathType: Prefix
 backend:
 service:
 name: my-service
 port:
 number: 80
...

# Routing to a Service with a Named Port 
If a Service uses a named port, an Ingress can also use the port’s name to choose to which port it will route.
...
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
 name: my-service
spec:
 selector:
   app: MyApp
 ports:
 - name: web
   protocol: TCP
   port: 80
   targetPort: 8080
.../*with this one*/...
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
 name: my-ingress
spec:
 rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - path: /somepath
      pathType: Prefix
      backend:
        service:
          name: my-service
          port:
            name: web
...

# Using Kubernetes Ingress practice
Kubernetes Ingress allows you to customize how external entities can interact with your Kubernetes applications via the network. This lab will allow you to exercise your knowledge of Kubernetes Ingress. You will use Ingress to open access from an existing service to an external server.

# Create a Service to Expose the web-auth Deployment
Check out the deployment:
kubectl get deployment web-auth -o yaml

*Note :the web-auth label on our Pods. We'll use this label to select these Pods using our Service.

Create a web-auth-svc.yml file:
vi web-auth-svc.yml
...
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: web-auth-svc
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    app: web-auth
  ports:
    - name: http
      protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
...
Create the Service:
kubectl create -f web-auth-svc.yml

# Create a web-auth-ingress.yml file:

vi web-auth-ingress.yml
Add the following YAML definitions:

Note: To paste YAML directly into the Vi/Vim editor, first enter the command :set paste.

apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: web-auth-ingress
spec:
  rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - path: /auth
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: web-auth-svc
            port:
              number: 80
Press Esc and enter :wq to save and exit.

Create the Ingress:

kubectl create -f web-auth-ingress.yml
Check the status of the Ingress:

kubectl describe ingress web-auth-ingress
Note the service endpoints in the Backends section of the output. You have successfully created an Ingress that maps to the backend Service.

TIPS: to check all is workign we can check that the endpoints are the same we run :
kubectl get pods -o wide => this will show the IP adresses of the pods
kubectl get endpoints web-auth-svc => this will show hte endpoints of the svc that must be the same as the ones at the ingress is routing to.


