# Kubectl commands
ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/
allows to interact with kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes API to deploy apps, inspect and manage cluster resources, view logs...

1. kubectl get
> kubectl get <object type> <object name> -o \
    <output> --sort-by <JSONPath> --selector \
    <selector>

Use kubectl get to list objects in the Kubernetes cluster.
    • -o  Set output format.
    • --sort-by  Sort output using a
    JSONPath expression.
    • --selector  Filter results by label.

2. kubectl describe
To get detailed information about Kubernetes objects using kubectl describe.
> kubectl describe <object type> <object name>

3. kubectl create
create objects
Supply a YAML file with -f to create an object from a YAML descriptor stored in the file.
If we attempt to create an object that already exists, an error will occur.
> kubectl create -f <file name>

4. kubectl apply
kubectl apply is similar to kubectl create.
However, if you use kubectl apply on an object that already exists, it will modify the existing object, if possible, so we can use it to upgrade or modify an existing object.
> kubectl apply -f <file name>

5. kubectl delete
Use kubectl delete to delete objects from the cluster.
> kubectl delete <object type> <object name>

6. Kubectl exec
kubectl exec can be used to run commands inside containers. Keep in mind that, in order for a command to succeed, the necessary software must exist within the container to run it.
For pods with multiple containers, specify the container name with -c.
> kubectl exec <pod name> -c <container name> --<command>

# hands on Guide
Exploring a Kubernetes Cluster with kubectl
Introduction
kubectl is the primary interface most people use in order to work with Kubernetes. This lab will give you a chance to test and hone your kubectl skills with a real Kubernetes cluster. You will have the opportunity to collect information and make changes to the cluster, all using kubectl.

Solution
Log in to the provided lab server using the credentials provided:

ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
Get a List of Persistent Volumes Sorted by Capacity
Get a list of persistent volumes sorted by capacity:

kubectl get pv
kubectl get pv -o yaml
kubectl get pv --sort-by=.spec.capacity.storage
Save the list to a file:

kubectl get pv --sort-by=.spec.capacity.storage > /home/cloud_user/pv_list.txt
List the contents of the file to verify it saved:

cat pv_list.txt
Run a Command Inside the quark Pod's Container to Obtain a Key Value
Get the contents of a file from inside the quark pod's container:

kubectl exec quark -n beebox-mobile -- cat /etc/key/key.txt
Save it to a file:

kubectl exec quark -n beebox-mobile -- cat /etc/key/key.txt > /home/cloud_user/key.txt
List the contents of the file to verify it saved:

cat key.txt
Create a Deployment Using a Spec File
Create a deployment using the deployment spec found in /home/cloud_user/deployment.yml:

kubectl apply -f /home/cloud_user/deployment.yml
kubectl get deployments -n beebox-mobile
kubectl get pods -n beebox-mobile
Delete the beebox-auth Service
Delete beebox-auth-svc:

kubectl delete service beebox-auth-svc -n beebox-mobile