ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/ , https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/

# Managing Application Configuraiton

it includes the dynamic values that are passed to the applications at runtime to control how they behave.
AKA pass data to containers at runtime to control how they run.
we can store configurationd data in kuberents we can use: ConfigMaps, Secrets

1. ConfigMaps:
this allows us to store our data in key-value map, then pass it to containers.
configMap object:
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
        name:
    data:
        key1: value1
        key2: value2
        key3:
            subkey:
                morekeys:data
                evenmore: some more data
        key4: |
            you can do also 
            nultiline...

more informations:
    *The name of a ConfigMap must be a valid DNS subdomain name.
    *Mounted ConfigMaps are updated automatically
    *The Kubernetes feature Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps provides an option to set individual Secrets and ConfigMaps as immutable. For clusters that extensively use ConfigMaps (at least tens of thousands of unique ConfigMap to Pod mounts), preventing changes to their data has the following advantages:
        protects you from accidental (or unwanted) updates that could cause applications outages
        improves performance of your cluster by significantly reducing load on kube-apiserver, by closing watches for ConfigMaps marked as immutable. /*immutable: true*/

2. Secrets:
secrests are like configMaps but are dedicated for sensitive data like passwords, API keys...
object would look like:
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: my-secret
type: Opaque
data:
    secretkey1: <base64 String 1>
    secretkey2: <base64 String 2>
more informations:
You can use Secrets for purposes such as the following:
    *Set environment variables for a container.
    *Provide credentials such as SSH keys or passwords to Pods.
    *Allow the kubelet to pull container images from private registries.
    *Help automate node registration within The Kubernetes control plane(i.e bootstrap token Secrets).
Types of Secret:
You can define and use your own Secret type by assigning a non-empty string as the type value for a Secret object (an empty string is treated as an Opaque type).
    Opaque: arbitrary user-defined data =>  default Secret type
    kubernetes.io/service-account-token: ServiceAccount token => used to store a token credential that identifies a ServiceAccount.
    kubernetes.io/dockercfg	: serialized ~/.dockercfg file => for accessing a container image registry.
        //kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson	: serialized ~/.docker/config.json file
    kubernetes.io/basic-auth    : credentials for basic authentication => provided for storing credentials needed for basic authentication.
    kubernetes.io/ssh-auth	: credentials for SSH authentication => is provided for storing data used in SSH authentication.
    kubernetes.io/tls	: data for a TLS client or server => is for storing a certificate and its associated key that are typically used for TLS.
    bootstrap.kubernetes.io/token	: bootstrap token data => is for tokens used during the node bootstrap process. It stores tokens used to sign well-known ConfigMaps.

*When you create a Secret using kubectl, you must use the generic subcommand to indicate an Opaque Secret type. 
> kubectl create secret generic empty-secret
> kubectl get secret empty-secret

*Individual Secrets are limited to 1MiB in size. 
*in the data section of the secret the values need to be in base64 so we need to do "... | base64"
3. env-vars:
we pass configMaps and secret data to containers as env variables, they will be visible to containers during runtime.
we add it under env section, i.e:
containers:
    /*
    ...
    */
    env:
    -   name: ENVVAR
        valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
                name: my-configmap
                key: mykey

4. configuration volumes:
a file for each top level key available for the container file system, te content is all keys below that to level key
volumes:
-   name: secret_volume
    secret:
        secretName: my-secret
after creating the volume for the pods
volumes:
-   mame: configmap_volune
    configMap:
        name: my-configmap
-   name: secret-voume
    secretL
        name: my-secret
this will specify to my pod what volumes do we have now we should mount those volumes inot the specefic container, so we do mountpath, preferable to be /etc/config /*we are working with apps_config...*/
containers:
-   name: ...
    /*...*/
    volumeMounts:
    -   name: configmap_volume
        mountPath: /etc/config/confgiMap
    -   name: secret_volume
        mountPath: /etc/config/secret

# Practice : Passing Configuration Data to a Kubernetes Container
Kubernetes has multiple options for storing and managing configuration data. This lab will focus on the process of passing that configuration data to your containers in order to configure applications. You will have the opportunity to work with application configuration in Kubernetes hands-on by passing some existing configuration data stored in Secrets and ConfigMaps to a container.

Generate an htpasswd File and Store It as a Secret
htpasswd -c .htpasswd user

Create a password you can easily remember (we'll need it again later).
View the file's contents:
cat .htpasswd

Create a Secret containing the htpasswd data:
kubectl create secret generic nginx-htpasswd --from-file .htpasswd

Delete the .htpasswd file:
rm .htpasswd

Create the Nginx Pod, pod.yml:
vi pod.yml

Set vi to 'paste' mode by hitting :, and then typing set paste (ENTER). Then switch back to INSERT mode by hitting i.
Enter the following to create the pod and mount the Nginx config and htpasswd Secret data:
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:1.19.1
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
    volumeMounts:
    - name: config-volume
      mountPath: /etc/nginx
    - name: htpasswd-volume
      mountPath: /etc/nginx/conf
  volumes:
  - name: config-volume
    configMap:
      name: nginx-config
  - name: htpasswd-volume
    secret:
      secretName: nginx-htpasswd
Save and exit the file by pressing Escape followed by :wq.
View the existing ConfigMap:
kubectl get cm

Get more info about nginx-config:
kubectl describe cm nginx-config

Create the pod:
kubectl apply -f pod.yml

Check the status of your pod and get its IP address:
kubectl get pods -o wide

Its IP address will be listed once it has a Running status. We'll use this in the final two commands.

Within the existing busybox pod, without using credentials, verify everything is working:
kubectl exec busybox -- curl <NGINX_POD_IP>

We'll see HTML for the 401 Authorization Required page — but this is a good thing, as it means our setup is working as expected.
Run the same command again using credentials (including the password you created at the beginning of the lab) to verify everything is working:
kubectl exec busybox -- curl -u user:<PASSWORD> <NGINX_POD_IP>

This time, we'll see the Welcome to nginx! page HTML.